# Component.dataComponent Property

Parent Object: [Component](Component.md)

This functionality is provided as a preview of intended future API capabilities. You are encouraged to use it and report any problems or suggestions using the [Fusion API and Scripts](https://forums.autodesk.com/t5/fusion-360-api-and-scripts/bd-p/22) forum.  

Because this is a preview of future functionality, there is the possibility that it will change, which will possibly break any existing programs that use this functionality. Because of that, you should never deliver any programs that use any preview capabilities. For a distributed program, you should wait until it has moved from preview to released state.

## Description

Returns the DataComponent associated with this component. The DataComponent provides ID information that can be used to access this component using the MFG DM API. These ID's don't exist until a component has been saved. The ID's are generated by MFG DM API on the cloud, so there will be a slight delay after saving before the ID's are available. This property returns null in the case the MFG DM API information doesn't exist yet.  

When opening a design, the MFG DM API information is obtained from the cloud and as a result may not be available immediately after opening a document. Again, this property will return null in this case too. Essentially, null is returned in all cases where good ID information is not yet available.

## Syntax

"component_var" is a variable referencing a Component object.  

```python
# Get the value of the property.
propertyValue = component_var.dataComponent
```

## Property Value

This is a read only property whose value is a [DataComponent](DataComponent.md).

## Version

Introduced in version May 2024  

